1-1 Su futuro en el mundo cambiante de los negocios 

La palabra clave en este encabezado está cambiando. Cuando se enfrenta a la necesidad de mejorar la productividad, aumentar las ganancias y ser más competitivos no solo con empresas en los Estados Unidos sino también con empresas internacionales ubicadas en otras partes del mundo, los empleados y los gerentes comenzaron a hacer la pregunta: ¿Qué hacer? ¿lo hacemos ahora? Aunque esta es una pregunta justa, es difícil de responder. Ciertamente, para un estudiante universitario que toma cursos de negocios o un empleado que recién comienza una carrera, la pregunta es aún más difícil de responder. Sin embargo, todavía hay oportunidades para las personas que están dispuestas a trabajar duro, continúan aprendiendo y poseen la capacidad de adaptarse al cambio. Comencemos este curso con tres conceptos básicos. 
● ¿Qué quieres? 
● ¿Por qué lo quieres? 
● ¡Escribirlo!


Durante un segmento en un programa nacional de entrevistas de televisión, Joe Dudley, uno de los dueños de negocios negros más respetados del mundo, dio el consejo anterior a cualquiera que quisiera tener éxito en los negocios. Su consejo puede ayudarlo a lograr el éxito. Lo sorprendente del éxito de Dudley es que comenzó un negocio de fabricación en su propia cocina, con su esposa e hijos que sirven como los únicos empleados de la nueva empresa. Luego desarrolló su propia línea de productos cosméticos y de cuidado del cabello vendidos directamente a cosmetólogos, barberos, escuelas de belleza y consumidores en los Estados Unidos y en países extranjeros. Hoy, después de mucho trabajo duro y una fuerte ética de trabajo, el Sr. Dudley ha construido una compañía bien reconocida y respetada en la industria de cosméticos competitivos. No solo es un exitoso propietario de un negocio, sino también un ganador del Premio Horatio Alger, un premio otorgado a personas sobresalientes que han tenido éxito ante la adversidad.2






Although many people would say that Joe Dudley was just lucky or happened to be in the right place at the right time, the truth is that he became a success because he had a dream and worked to turn his dream into a reality. He would be the first to tell you that you have the same opportunities he had. According to Mr. Dudley, “Success is a journey, not just a destination.”3





Whether you want to obtain part-time employment to pay college and living expenses, begin your career as a full-time employee, or start a business, you must bring something to the table that makes you different from the next person. Employers and our economic system are more demanding than ever before. Ask yourself: What can I do that will make employers want to pay me a salary? What skills do I have that employers need? With these two questions in mind, we begin the next section with another basic question: Why study business?




1-1a Why Study Business?
The potential benefits of higher education are enormous. To begin with, there are
economic benefits. Over their lifetimes, college graduates on average earn much
more than high-school graduates. Although lifetime earnings are substantially higher
for college graduates, so are annual income amounts (see Figure 1-1). In addition to
higher income, you will find at least five compelling reasons for studying business.


For Help in Choosing a Career What do you want to do with the rest of your
life? Like many people, you may find it a difficult question to answer. This business
course will introduce you to a wide array of employment opportunities. In private
enterprise, these range from small, local businesses owned by one individual to large
companies such as American Express and Marriott International that are owned by
thousands of stockholders. There are also employment opportunities with federal,
state, county, and local governments and with charitable organizations such as the
Red Cross and Save the Children. For help in deciding which career might be right
for you, read Appendix B: Careers in Business, which appears on the text website.


In addition to career information in Appendix B, a number of Internet websites
provide information about career development.



To click your career into high gear, you can also use online networking to
advance your career. Websites like Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, and other social
media sites can help you locate job openings and help prospective employers to find
you. To make the most of online networking, begin by identifying and joining sites
where you can connect with potential employers, former classmates, and others
who may have or may hear of job openings. Next, be sure your online profile,
photographs, and posts communicate your abilities and interests. Finally, be ready
to respond quickly when you spot a job opening.


One thing to remember as you think about what your ideal career might be is
that a person’s choice of a career ultimately is just a reflection of what he or she
values and holds most important. What will give one individual personal satisfaction
may not satisfy another. For example, one person may dream of a career as a
successful corporate executive, manager, or employee in marketing or technology or
manufacturing or financial services. For another person, one goal may be obtaining
a large salary and job security. Another person may choose a career that has more
modest monetary rewards but that provides the opportunity to help others. What
you choose to do with your life will be based on what you feel is most important.
And you are a very important part of that decision.

To Be a Successful Employee Deciding on the type of career you want is only
the first step. To get a job in your chosen field and to be successful at it, you will
have to develop a plan, or a road map, that ensures that you have the skills and
knowledge the job requires. Think about what you’d look for if you were hiring
an employee and strive to be that kind of employee. You will also be expected to
have the ability to work well with many types of people in a culturally diverse
workforce. Cultural (or workplace) diversity refers to the differences among people
in a workforce owing to race, ethnicity, and gender.


This course, your instructor, and all of the resources available at your college
or university can help you to acquire the skills and knowledge you will need for a
successful career. But do not underestimate your part in making your dream a reality.
In addition to the job-related skills and knowledge you’ll need to be successful in a
specific career, employers will also look for the following characteristics when hiring
a new employee or promoting an existing employee:

●
Honesty and integrity

●
Willingness to work hard

●
Dependability

●
Time management skills

●
Self-confidence

●
Motivation

●
Willingness to learn

●
Communication skills

●
Professionalism





Employers will also be interested in any work experience you may have had in
cooperative work/school programs, during summer vacations, or in part-time jobs
during the school year. In addition to job skills and knowledge, experience—even
part-time work experience—can make a difference when it is time to apply for the
job you really want. 





To Improve Your Management Skills Many employees want to become
managers because managers often receive higher salaries and can earn promotions
within an organization. Although management obviously can be a rewarding career,
what is not so obvious is the amount of time and hard work needed to achieve the
higher salaries and promotions. For starters, employers expect more from managers
and supervisors than ever before. They also face increased problems created by
increased global competition, the quest for improved quality, and the need for
efficient use of the firm’s resources.

To be an effective manager, managers must be able to perform four basic
management functions: planning, organizing, leading and motivating, and controlling.
All four topics are discussed in Chapter 6, Understanding the Management Process.
To successfully perform these management functions, managers must also possess
four very important skills.

●
Interpersonal skills—The ability to deal effectively with individual employees,
other managers within the firm, and people outside the firm.

●
Analytic skills—The ability to identify problems correctly, generate reasonable
alternatives, and select the “best” alternatives to solve problems.

●
Technical skills—The skill required to accomplish a specific kind of work being
done in an organization. Although managers may not actually perform the
technical tasks, they should be able to train employees and answer technical
questions.

●
Conceptual skills—The ability to think in abstract terms in order to see the “big
picture.” Conceptual skills help managers understand how the various parts of
an organization or an idea can fit together.



In addition to the four skills just described, a successful manager will need many
of the same characteristics that an employee needs to be successful.



To Start Your Own Business Some people prefer to work for themselves, and
they open their own businesses. To be successful, business owners must possess
many of the same characteristics that successful employees and managers have, and
they must be willing to work hard and put in long hours.



It also helps if a small-business owner has an idea that will provide a product
or service that customers want. For example, Pierre Omidyar launched the eBay
auction website in 1995. The website was dedicated to providing buyers and sellers
with an honest and open marketplace. Today, more than 20 years later, whether
you are buying or selling new or used, plain or luxurious, common place or luxury,
trendy or one-of-a-kind, if it exists in the world, it probably is for sale on eBay.4
Today, eBay’s success is a result of Omidyar’s original idea and his work to make
the dream a reality.



Unfortunately, many business firms fail: Approximately 70 percent of small
businesses fail within the first 10 years. Typical reasons for business failures
include undercapitalization (not enough money), poor business location, poor
customer service, unqualified or untrained employees, fraud, lack of a proper
business plan, and failure to seek outside professional help. The material in
Chapter 5, Small Business, Entrepreneurship, and Franchises, and selected topics
and examples throughout this text will help you to decide whether you want
to open your own business. The material in this course will also help you to
overcome many of these problems.
To Become a Better Informed Consumer and Investor The world of
business surrounds us. You cannot buy a home, a new Ford Fusion Hybrid from
the local Ford dealer, a pair of jeans at Gap Inc., or a hot dog from a street vendor
without entering into a business transaction. Because you no doubt will engage
in business transactions almost every day of your life, one very good reason for
studying business is to become a more fully informed consumer.
Many people also rely on a basic understanding of business to help them to
invest for the future. According to Julie Stav, Hispanic stockbroker-turned-author
and radio personality, “Take $25, add to it drive plus determination and then watch
it multiply into an empire.”5 The author of Get Your Share and other personal finance
help books believes that it is important to learn the basics about the economy and
business, stocks, mutual funds, and other alternatives before investing your money.
She also believes that it is never too early to start investing. Although this is an
obvious conclusion, just dreaming of being rich does not make it happen. In fact,
like many facets of life, it takes planning and determination to establish the type of
investment program that will help you to accomplish your financial goals.
1-1b Special Note to Business Students
It is important to begin reading this text with one thing in mind: This business course
does not have to be difficult. We have done everything possible to eliminate the
problems that you encounter in a typical class. All of the features in each chapter have
been evaluated and recommended by instructors with years of teaching experience.
In addition, business students—just like you—were asked to critique each chapter
component. Based on this feedback, the text includes the following features:

●
Learning objectives appear at the beginning of each chapter.

●
Inside Business is a chapter-opening case that highlights how successful, real-
world companies do business on a day-to-day basis.

●
Margin notes are used throughout a chapter to reinforce both learning objectives
and key terms.

Boxed features in each chapter highlight how
both employees and entrepreneurs can be ethical
and successful. Topics discussed in the boxed
features include career success, ethics and social
responsibility, the green, environmental movement,
and social media.

●
Concept Checks at the end of each major section
within a chapter help you test your understanding
of the major issues just discussed.

●
End-of-chapter materials provide a chapter summary,
a list of key terms, discussion questions, and a video
case about a successful, real-world company.

●
The last section of every chapter is entitled Building
Skills for Career Success and includes exercises
devoted to enhancing your social media skills,
building team skills, and researching different
careers.

●
End-of-part materials provide a continuing video
case about Graeter’s Ice Cream, a company that
operates a chain of retail outlets in the Cincinnati,
Ohio area and sells to Kroger Stores and other
retailers and consumers throughout the country. Also, at the end of each major
part is an exercise designed to help you to develop the components that are
included in a typical business plan.
In addition to the text, a number of student supplements will help you to explore
the world of business. We are especially proud of the website that accompanies this
edition. There, you will find online study aids, such as key terms and definitions,
and student PowerPoint slides. If you want to take a look at the Internet support
materials available for this edition of Foundations of Business,
1. Go to www.cengagebrain.com.
2. At the CengageBrain.com home page, enter the ISBN for your book (located on
the back cover of your book) in the search box in the middle of the page. This
will take you to the textbook website where companion resources can be found.
As authors, we want you to be successful. We know that your time is valuable
and that your schedule is crowded with many different activities. We also appreciate
the fact that textbooks are expensive. Therefore, we want you to use this text and
get the most out of your investment. Because a text should always be evaluated by
the students and professors who use it, we would welcome and sincerely appreciate
your comments and suggestions. Please feel free to contact us by using one of the
following e-mail addresses:
Bill Pride: w-pride@tamu.edu
Bob Hughes: bhughes@dcccd.edu
Jack Kapoor: kapoorj@att.net