Calitulo 1

A Is for Alphabet, Giant of the Global Economy
Do you know alphabet? it’s one of the most valuable
corporations on the planet, with an ever-expanding array of
high-tech goods and services. even if the name of this silicon
valley company isn’t familiar, you probably know its most famous
brand: google. in fact, much of alphabet’s $75 billion in annual
revenue comes from the google subsidiary, which offers search
services, sells advertising, provides cloud storage, and operates
gmail, android, and chrome.

in addition, alphabet owns two biotech subsidiaries, two
investment arms that pour money into promising startups, and a
research lab (called X) for experimental ventures. Other alphabet
subsidiaries are planning high-speed internet access for urban
areas and fine-tuning app-controlled “smart home” systems.
in short, alphabet’s businesses are involved in a long list of
ambitious projects, part of the parent company’s long-term plan
for increasing global revenues.


as strong as alphabet is in the United states, it also recognizes
the potential for profit in countries with faster-growing economies.
india, for example, has 350 million internet users, a number that
is expected to double within a few years. Doing business in india
can be a challenge because it is home to many languages, many
low-income households, and many remote villages. alphabet’s
google in india is creating a market for itself by providing free
Wi-Fi at railroad stations, teaching villagers to search online, and
expanding its keyboards to accommodate 11 languages. “if you
have a mission to connect the world, you have to go where the
people are,” explains google’s top executive.1


Did you know?
Alphabet, Google’s parent company, rings up
more than $75 billion in annual revenue and
employs more than 70,000 people worldwide.


Wow! What a challenging world we live in. Just for a moment, think about how the
world has changed in just the last few years. The U.S. economy has shown signs of
improvement, the unemployment rate has declined, businesses are beginning to hire
new employees, and the nation has a new Republican president—Donald Trump—
who promises trade and economic reforms. And yet, there are still problems and
many people worry about the future of the nation and the economy. In fact, people
still remember the 2008 recession—one of the worst recession periods since the
Great Depression in 1929. Simply put, many individuals, business leaders, and
politicians, worry that the future of the nation’s economy could be a bumpy road
that leads to another recession.
Regardless of the current state of the economy, keep in mind that our economy
continues to adapt and change to meet the challenges of an ever-changing world
and to provide opportunities for those who want to achieve success. Our economic
system also provides an amazing amount of freedom that allows businesses like
Alphabet—the company profiled in the Inside Business opening case for this
chapter—to adapt to changing business environments. To meet increased demand
for its search engine services, cloud storage, and other technology products and
services, Alphabet—the parent company of Google—and its employees were able to
introduce even more new products and services, earn a profit, and expand to other
countries around the world.
Within certain limits, imposed mainly to ensure public safety, the owners of a
business can produce any legal good or service they choose and attempt to sell it at the
price they set. This system of business, in which individuals decide what to produce,
how to produce it, and at what price to sell it, is called free enterprise . Our free-
enterprise system ensures, for example, that Amazon.com can sell everything from
televisions, toys, and tools to computers, cameras, and clothing. Our system gives Amazon’s owners and stockholders the right to make a profit from the company’s success. It gives Amazon’s management the right to compete with bookstore rival
Barnes & Noble and retailer Best Buy. It also gives you—the consumer—the right
to choose.


In this chapter, we look briefly at what business is and how it became that way.
First, we discuss what you must do to be successful in the world of business and
explore some important reasons for studying business. Next, we define business,
noting how business organizations satisfy their customers’ needs and earn profits.
Then we examine how capitalism and command economies answer four basic
economic questions. Next, our focus shifts to how the nations of the world
measure economic performance, the phases in a typical business cycle, and the
four types of competitive situations. Then we look at the events that helped shape
today’s business system, the current business environment, and the challenges that
businesses face.

